Add documentation for Cloud Credentials (#836)
okteto/docs: src/content/admin/cloud-credentials/gcp.mdx

---
title: GCP
description: Configure GCP credentials
sidebar_label: gcp
id: gcp-cloud-credentials
---
import Image from "@theme/Image";

> This tutorial will guide you on how to configure GCP credentials for your Okteto instance. Configuring GCP credentials will allow deploy, test, and destroy commands in your okteto manifest to have access to your GCP account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will guide you on how to configure GCP credentials for your Okteto instance. Configuring GCP credentials enables the deploy, test, and destroy commands in your Okteto Manifest to access your GCP account.
```

In this specific guide we'll request read only access to cloud storage but you can provide access to any other GCP resource by using a role with more/different permissions.

It's recommended that you have the [Google Cloud CLI installed](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) to follow this tutorial.

> GCP credentials are configured using [Worlkload Identity Federation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GCP credentials are configured using [Workload Identity Federation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation).
```

## Step 1: Create the Workload Identity Pool

As a first step let's create a Workload Identity Pool. A Workload Identity Pool is a group of identities that can be used to access GCP resources.

```bash
PROJECT_ID=my-project-12345
POOL_ID=okteto-pool
AUDIENCE=deploy.okteto.dev

gcloud iam workload-identity-pools create ${POOL_ID} --location=global --display-name="Okteto pool"
```

## Step 2: Create the OIDC Identity Provider in the pool

Within the pool, let's register the kubernetes cluster as an identity provider.

```bash
	gcloud iam workload-identity-pools providers create-oidc my-cluster \
    --location=global \
    --workload-identity-pool=${POOL_ID} \
    --display-name=$(WORKLOAD_PROVIDER_NAME) \
    --attribute-mapping="google.subject=assertion.sub" \
    --issuer-uri=https://container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/$(PROJECT)/locations/us-east2/clusters/development \
    --allowed-audiences=${AUDIENCE}
```

> Okteto displays the OIDC endpoint of your cluster in the admin general view:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Okteto displays the OIDC endpoint of your cluster in the Admin -> General view of the Dashboard:
```

  <p align="center">
     <Image
       src={require("@site/static/img/amazon-ecr-oidc-config.png").default}
       alt="OIDC configuration in admin general view"
     />
   </p>

Traditionally, `AUDIENCE` is the client id of the requester. You'll only exchange token for these audiences. It is the `aud` field of the JWT payload.

> We recommend creating a different/dedicated audience for each okteto instance and region used even if you use the same identity provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend creating a different/dedicated audience for each Okteto instance and region used, even if you use the same identity provider:
```

```
your-okteto-instance.com/112233445566.your-region.amazonaws.com
```

or the more compact format:

```
your-okteto-instance.com/your-region
```

### Step 3: Create the IAM policy binding

Give the Okteto Kubernetes service account the permissions to access the GCP resources needed:

```bash
PROJECT=my-project-12345
PRINCIPAL=iam.googleapis.com/projects/${PROJECT_ID}/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/${POOL_ID}/subject/system:serviceaccount:okteto:okteto
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT} --role=roles/storage.admin --member=principal://${PRINCIPAL} --condition=None
```

## Step 4: Configure the credentials in Okteto

Enable GCP in the [Cloud Credentials view](index.mdx) with the following configuration:

- **Project**: The GCP project id where the resources are located
- **Workload Pool ID**: The Pool ID used in previous steps
- **Provider ID**: The OIDC Provider ID used in previous steps
- **Audience**: The Audience used for the Identity Provider

This will allow Okteto to access the desired GCP resources in okteto deploy, test, and destroy commands.

> With the above configuration the following okteto manifest will be able to access storage buckets out of the box for all three commands[1]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the above configuration the following Okteto Manifest will be able to access storage buckets out of the box for all three commands[1]:
```

```yaml
deploy:
  image: gcr.io/google.com/cloudsdktool/google-cloud-cli:stable
  commands:
    - gcloud storage buckets create gs://test-bucket

destroy:
  image: gcr.io/google.com/cloudsdktool/google-cloud-cli:stable
  commands:
    - gcloud storage buckets delete gs://test-bucket

test:
  aws:
    image: amazon/aws-cli
    commands:
      - gcloud storage ls | grep test-bucket
```

> [1] Subject to the permissions granted by the role

Reviewer: I think this could be excessive unless we have multiple footnotes

---
title: GCP
description: Configure GCP credentials
sidebar_label: gcp
id: gcp-cloud-credentials
---
import Image from "@theme/Image";

> This tutorial will guide you on how to configure GCP credentials for your Okteto instance. In this specific guide we'll request read only access to cloud storage but you can provide access to any other AWS resource by using a role with more/different permissions.

Reviewer 2: The same comments as the AWS guide applies

It's recommended that you have the [Google Cloud CLI installed](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) to follow this tutorial.

> AWS credentials are configured using [Worlkload Identity Federation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation).

Reviewer 2: AWS?

> ## Step 1: Create the Workload Identity Pool

Reviewer 2: Can we add an intro paragraph explaining the goal of the step and what's the "Workload Identity Pool" for?

```bash
PROJECT_ID=my-project-12345
POOL_ID=okteto-pool
AUDIENCE=deploy.okteto.dev

gcloud iam workload-identity-pools create ${POOL_ID} --location=global --display-name="Okteto pool"
```

## Step 2: Create the OIDC Identity Provider in the pool

We'll use the cluster as the identity provider for the pool:

```bash

> 	gcloud iam workload-identity-pools providers create-oidc my-cluster \

Reviewer 2: fix indentation, we use 2 spaces for indentation

  	--location=global \
		--workload-identity-pool=${POOL_ID} \
		--display-name=$(WORKLOAD_PROVIDER_NAME) \
		--attribute-mapping="google.subject=assertion.sub" \
		--issuer-uri=https://container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/$(PROJECT)/locations/europe-west1/clusters/product \
		--allowed-audiences=${AUDIENCE}
```

### Step 3: Create the IAM policy binding

> Given the okteto kubernetes service account the permissions to access the GCP resources needed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Give the Okteto Kubernetes service account the needed permissions to access the GCP resources:
```

```bash

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove extra blank line

PROJECT=my-project-12345
PRINCIPAL=iam.googleapis.com/projects/${PROJECT_ID}/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/${POOL_ID}/subject/system:serviceaccount:okteto:okteto
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT} --role=roles/storage.admin --member=principal://${PRINCIPAL} --condition=None
```

## Step 4: Configure the credentials in Okteto

> Enable GCP in the [Cloud Credentials view](index.mdx) with the following configuration:

Reviewer 2: Same comments that for the AWS guide

- **Project**: The GCP project id where the resources are located
- **Workload Pool ID**: The Pool ID used in previous steps
- **Provider ID**: The OIDC Provider ID used in previous steps
- **Audience**: The Audience used for the Identity Provider

> This will allow Okteto to access the desired GCP resources in `okteto deploy` and `okteto test` commands.

Reviewer 2: LEt show a simple example creating a bucket on `okteto deploy` and deleting it on `okteto destroy`
